KEY, CENTRAL OBJECTIVES OF THE PROPOSAL

Over the past few years, the US has embarked in a transformation
of the Air TransportationSystem (ATS) to address the expected
increase of air traffic in the US.  The current state of the art
to assess interactions of humans and autonomy is to model the air
transportation system as a distributed, interactive system of systems
with authority and autonomy assigned to both humans and automationat
multiple levels. The scale and complexity of these models make the
use of traditional verification and validation techniques intractable.

A CONCISE STATEMENT OF THE METHODS/TECHNIQUES

We propose exciting and unexplored research to develop anew conceptthat
combines heuristic optimizers and formal verification tools in order
to better understand huge models. In thisapproach,  optimizers
quickly  select  the  smaller,  most interesting  regions  of  the
model.   While previous work has explored these two approach
separately, no previous work has studied their combination.  Creating
this combination is much more than a mere tool or process project. Rather,
it requires fundamentally new ideas for utilizing a variety of signals
collected from complex systems. We propose to use the optimizers
to find guides that can assist model-checking based verification
when exploring these huge models. Our approach is based on theprinciple
of rationality which states that experienced operators of any
system know that certain actions are mostrelevant to important
outcomes. That is, within the very large decision space of huge
models, there exists a smaller space of relevant and rational actions.
Our hypothesis (to be tested in this work) isin this smaller space,
it is possible that formal verification can thoroughly explore a
model more thoroughly.

SIGNIFICANCE OF THE PROPOSED WORK 

As air spaces gets more crowded; safety concerns become more critical.
There is a critical need for new safety evaluation techniques to
verify and validate the interactions of humans and autonomy in the
context of new complex software systems and changing roles of the
human operator.

